# Prediction_In_Production_Quality
Predicting the quality of Mechanical components in Manufacturing Companies
The dataset I have chosen represents measurements of parts as they move through Bosch’s production lines. Each part has a unique Id. The goal is to predict which parts will fail quality control (represented by a 'Response' = 1). The dataset contains an extremely large number of anonymized features. Features are named according to a convention that tells you the production line, the station on the line, and a feature number. E.g. L3_S36_F3939 is a feature measured on line 3, station 36, and is feature number 3939. On account of the large size of the dataset, data has been separated into the files by the type of feature they contain: numerical, categorical, and finally, a file with date features. The date features provide a timestamp for when each measurement was taken. Each date column ends in a number that corresponds to the previous feature number. E.g. the value of L0_S0_D1 is the time at which L0_S0_F0 was taken (D1 date corresponds to the F0 feature). Similarly, the value of L0_S0_D106 is the time at which L0_S0_F105 was taken (here D106 date corresponds to the F 105 feature). On account of the dataset size and memory handling I would like to sample a few thousands of rows from the dataset in all categories.

Ensuring the procedures for the production of the advanced mechanical components to be of the highest quality is an imperative for the most world's leading manufacturing companies. In general quality control of a particular component is done by sampling rather than inspecting the whole lot. Sometimes this can lead to the rejection of an entire batch which is solely based on the conclusions drawn from the sample inspection. Using Data Analytics, we can solve this problem by analyzing each component’s quality in real time. Part of doing so is closely monitoring its parts as they progress through the manufacturing processes. 

I would like to predict which manufactured parts will fail quality control, based on thousands of measurements and tests made for each component earlier along the assembly line. As I have mentioned earlier, usually most of the manufacturing companies do their quality check based on sample inspection rather than lot inspection which might cause Type I error leading to undesirable rejections. Our model will be inspecting the entire batch thereby rejecting only those parts which are faulty. Tracing the causes of manufacturing defects of its components back to specific steps in the production process helps in improving the product quality and reduces downtime. As a whole, it will add up to improve the product quality, reduces material waste thereby leading to the cost savings.
